okay I'd like to demonstrate my Blendtec
blender grinding grains I just wanted to
talk first a little bit about this
blender and why I love it I used to own
a Vitamix and then the one thing that I
didn't like about it aesthetically was
it was tall really tall and it would not
fit underneath a cabinet like this it
was just it would just be like really
high the plunger and everything sticks
up so that was just inconvenient but
this one I can slide you know right
underneath the cabinet okay and so also
it has a bigger container than the
Vitamix it's wider it has a wider blade
this is called the Blendtec Wildside
this sucker just pulverized is
everything I make I can make nut milks
out of it I can also do that in my
juicer which I've demonstrated and you
can put whole fruits and vegetables in
this and then you would choose like the
whole juice option which you can
actually make juice without a juicer
just using a Blendtec like if you can't
get both the juicer and a blender I
would highly recommend getting a blender
because you can do so much with this
thing if you were gonna make a juice out
of like fruits and vegetables that you
put in this then you would just strain
it through a nut milk bag which you
could buy online or you can get a paint
strainer from somewhere like Home Depot
or Lowe's or a hardware store wherever
so this this has this has a smoothie
button a whole juice button this is
sauces dips dressings batters soups
syrups fondues crushing ice milkshake
ice cream frozen yogurt and it's just
amazing only rarely does it get jammed a
little bit and you might have to open it
but that's just like I said rarely
that's maybe if I don't put enough
liquid in something so you don't need a
plunger with this Blendtec because like
I said it just pulverized those things
and another thing is when you have
Vitamix and you want to do grains or you
know whatever kind of dry things like
you can do nut butter in a Vitamix but
it's when I tried it it was very hard
this just like I said grinds it all up
you don't need a separate container like
you do with Vitamix everything can be
done in this Blendtec and you know I
like to grind grains in mine I'd like to
have a grain grinder so I could do
massive amounts of grains but this works
for me just fine and so I'm going to
demonstrate how I grind my grain in the
Blendtec this is whole organic whole
wheat that I have purchased from as our
standard co-op I have it in my 25 pound
bucket up here and so what I do is I
soak this grain overnight or all day
long in water and then I drain it out
and it sprouts and that just it releases
the phytic acid the enzyme inhibitors
that makes it more digestible it creates
vitamins such as vitamin A
I'm sorry vitamin C which is not
typically found in wheat when you just
you know when it's just made the regular
way sprouting sprouts in general or one
of the healthiest foods that you can eat
and one of the cheapest things you can
make and this grain that I got from as
their standard being organic I think it
only costs and costed me like I think it
cost like $10 or it might have been I
don't think I went as high higher than
19 bucks like I can't remember exactly
it might have been the spelt grain that
was 19 and this might have been 10
something so it's very cheap to get a
big 25 pound bag of organic wheat I
don't particularly eat wheat right now I
don't do so well on it I'm doing raw
foods for myself for the most part but
my family still eats
huit and I like to sprout it because
it's healthier for them so after I
soaked and sprouted this grain I ID
hydrated it in my my Excalibur
dehydrator which I'll just show you real
quickly right there it has nine trays
and I just dehydrate it overnight so I'm
gonna go ahead kind of hard to do with
one hand here I'm getting ready to make
bread first sandwiches for my kids go
ahead and do this freshly ground flour
now I keep this sprouted grain in the
freezer until I'm ready to use it and I
like to grind it fresh if I make
pancakes waffles or bread or
what-have-you
okay so this is gonna be loud because
that is one thing about the Blendtec it
is very loud okay so I'm gonna start off
with the ice crush for this grain um you
could use actually probably any button
but I just like to use this one
so this actually should be should be
good enough I think was that loud and
funny there we go
yeah so that's actually it's a little
bit warm from the friction I will in a
minute baby and so yeah it's perfectly
ground flour and now I'm gonna go ahead
and make some bread in my bread machine
and that's how you do it
alrighty see you next time